Property  
& casualty
Policy document
Canada

 


1

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

PREAMBLE

 

This Policy is a contract of insurance between you and us. Your Policy contains all the details of the cover that we 
provide. This Policy consists of and must be read together with the Declarations page and any Endorsements. This Policy 
is not complete unless it is signed and a Declarations page is attached.

The Sections of this Policy are identified by the blue lines across the page with white upper case print, these are for 
information purposes only and do not form part of the cover given by this Policy. Terms in bold upper case print are 
references to specific Insuring Clauses, Sections or Conditions. Other terms in bold lower case print are defined terms and 
have a special meaning as set forth in the Definitions Section and elsewhere. Words stated in the singular will include the 
plural and vice versa. However, this protocol does not apply to the Statutory Conditions and subsequent Sections.

IMPORTANT: INSURING CLAUSE 1 (SECTION H only) provide cover on a claims made and reported basis. Under these 
Insuring Clauses a claim must be first made against you and notified to us during the period of the policy or the 
extended reporting period to be covered. These Insuring Clauses do not cover any claim arising out of any actual or 
alleged act, error or omission occurring, in whole or in part, on or before the retroactive date.

In consideration of the premium and in reliance upon the information that you have provided to us prior to the 
commencement of this insurance, we agree to provide the cover as set out below:

 

INSURING CLAUSES

 

INSURING CLAUSE 1: COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
SECTION A: BODILY INJURY AND PROPERTY DAMAGE LIABILITY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including liability for claimants' costs 
and expenses) as a result of any claim arising out of bodily injury or property damage first occurring during the period 
of the policy.

We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.

SECTION B: POLLUTION LIABILITY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including liability for claimants' costs 
and expenses) as a result of any claim arising out of bodily injury or property damage caused directly by pollution first 
occurring during the period of the policy, on condition that the pollution was the direct result of a sudden, identifiable, 
unintended and unexpected incident.

We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.

SECTION C: PRODUCTS AND COMPLETED OPERATIONS LIABILITY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including liability for claimants' costs 
and expenses) as a result of any claim arising out of bodily injury or property damage first occurring during the period 
of the policy caused directly by any product.

We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.


2

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

SECTION D: TENANTS’ LEGAL LIABILITY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including liability for claimants' costs 
and expenses) as a result of any claim arising out of property damage to premises leased to, hired by, on loan to or held 
in trust by you or otherwise in your care, custody or control first occurring during the period of the policy.

We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.

SECTION E: PERSONAL AND ADVERTISING INJURY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including liability for claimants' costs 
and expenses) as a result of any claim arising out of personal injury or advertising injury first occurring during the 
period of the policy.

We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.

SECTION F: EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including liability for claimants' costs 
and expenses) as a result of any claim arising out of bodily injury first occurring during the period of the policy to senior 
executive officers or employees domiciled in Canada. We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.

However, we will only make these payments in respect of senior executive officers or employees on whose behalf 
contributions are:

a. not required to be made by you under the provisions of any Workers' Compensation Law because your business 
activities are deemed exempt activities by such Workers' Compensation Law; or
b. required to be made by you under the provisions of any Workers' Compensation Law but where liability has 
been denied by any Workers' Compensation authority.

SECTION G: MEDICAL EXPENSES
We agree to pay medical expenses for bodily injury to a third party caused by an accident first occurring during the 
period of the policy in the course of your business activities, provided that:

a. the third party, at the time of the accident, is not entitled to benefits under any workers' compensation or 
disability benefits law or similar law;
b. the medical expenses are incurred and notified to us within one year of the date of the accident; and
c. the third party submits to examination, at our expense, by physicians of our choice and as often as we 
reasonably require.

We will make these payments regardless of fault.

SECTION H: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS LIABILITY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including liability for claimants' costs 
and expenses) as a result of any claim first made against you during the period of the policy arising out of any act, error 
or omission committed by you or on your behalf in the administration of your employee benefit program.

We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.


3

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

INSURING CLAUSE 2: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY
SECTION A: PROPERTY DAMAGE
We agree to reimburse you for any reasonable sums necessarily incurred to repair or rebuild your premises as a direct 
result of damage to your premises first occurring during the period of the policy.

SECTION B: CONTENTS DAMAGE
We agree to reimburse you for any reasonable sums necessarily incurred to repair or replace your contents that have 
been lost or damaged during the period of the policy.

SECTION C: ADDITIONAL CONTENTS
We agree to reimburse you for any reasonable sums necessarily incurred to repair or replace:

a. contents in transit, including by parcel post and courier;
b. contents while at an exhibition site or in the custody of a sales representative;
c. materials, machinery and equipment that you have been contracted by a third party to install, provided you are 
legally liable for the materials, machinery and equipment and they are not left unattended for more than 30 
consecutive days;
d. tools that are used in connection with your business activities at or away from the premises;
e. stock that has been sold by you to a third party on a deferred payment plan, however, the maximum amount 
we will pay is the limit of liability or an amount equal to any unpaid balance, whichever is less; and
f. contents that you have leased, rented, loaned or entrusted to a third party for up to a maximum period of 30 
consecutive days;
g. contents that you have hired or leased and are legally liable for;
h. locks and keys, provided this is necessary to maintain the security of your premises or safes;
i. patterns, models, moulds, plans and designs that are used in connection with your business activities;
j. any trailer, provided that it was unattached from, being attached to, or being detached from, a motor vehicle 
when the damage occurred; and
k. outdoor signs located on the premises;

that have been lost or damaged during the period of the policy.

SECTION D: ADDITIONAL EXPENSES
We agree to reimburse you for any reasonable sums necessarily incurred:

a. to make temporary repairs to, expedite permanent repairs for, or expedite permanent replacement of, your 
premises or contents;
b. to remove any debris;
c. to extract pollutants from land or water;
d. for professional services including architects, surveyors and engineers;
e. to establish the value of the damage to your premises or contents;
f. to locate the source of any water or oil leak, including the repair of any subsequent damage as a direct result of 
locating the water or oil leak;
g. to retrieve, restore or replace the data you need to continue your business activities if your business records and 
electronic data have been lost or corrupted;


4

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

h. for rental payments you are legally obliged to pay during any period which your premises are unusable;
i. for any fire department charges you incur;
j. to re-charge fire extinguishing equipment;
k. for security guard services to temporarily safeguard your damaged premises; and
l. for a ransom paid for information directly leading to a conviction for any act of arson;

as a direct result of damage to your premises or contents, or the loss of your contents.

SECTION E: NEWLY ACQUIRED OR CONSTRUCTED PROPERTY
We agree to reimburse you for any reasonable sums necessarily incurred to repair or rebuild any additional premises 
acquired or constructed by you during the period of the policy, and to repair or replace your contents at these 
premises, as a direct result of damage to the additional premises or contents first occurring during the period of the 
policy provided that you give us written notice within 60 days of the acquisition or commencement of construction and 
agree to any additional premium and terms of coverage required by us.

SECTION F: ORDINANCE OR LAW
We agree to reimburse you for the reasonable additional costs to repair or rebuild your premises to the minimum 
standards required to comply with the current building regulations and laws as a direct result of damage to your 
premises first occurring during the period of the policy
INSURING CLAUSE 3: BUSINESS INTERRUPTION
SECTION A: BUSINESS INTERRUPTION
We agree to reimburse you for your actual loss sustained during the indemnity period as a direct result of an 
interruption to your business activities caused by:

a. damage to your premises or contents, other than damage causing failure in the supply of water, gas, electricity, 
telephone or internet to your premises;
b. damage to the property of one of your suppliers, other than a supplier of water, gas, electricity, telephone or 
internet; or
c. failure in the supply of water, gas, electricity, telephone or internet to your premises for more than 24 
consecutive hours as a direct result of damage to your premises or the property of your supplier of water, gas, 
electricity, telephone or internet;

first occurring during the period of the policy.

SECTION B: PREVENTION OR RESTRICTION OF ACCESS TO PREMISES
We agree to reimburse you for your actual loss sustained during the indemnity period as a direct result of an 
interruption to your business activities caused by:

a. damage to third party property which prevents access to your premises; or
b. prevention or restriction of access to your premises by order of any governmental or law enforcement agency;

first occurring during the period of the policy.


5

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

SECTION C: RENTAL INCOME
We agree to reimburse you for your actual loss sustained during the indemnity period as a direct result of a reduction 
in your rental income caused by damage to your premises first occurring during the period of the policy.

SECTION D: EXTRA EXPENSE
We agree to reimburse you for any reasonable sums over and above your normal operating expenses incurred to:

a. mitigate an interruption to and continue your business activities during the indemnity period, provided that 
the costs are less than the expected actual loss sustained had these measures not been taken; and
b. re-locate to alternative premises during the indemnity period, if you and we agree that it is not practicable or 
reasonable for you to repair or rebuild the damaged premises.

SECTION E: NEWLY ACQUIRED OR CONSTRUCTED PROPERTY
We agree to reimburse you for your actual loss sustained during the indemnity period as a direct result of an 
interruption to your business activities caused by damage to any additional premises acquired or constructed by you 
during the period of the policy, provided that you give us written notice within 60 days of the acquisition or 
commencement of construction and agree to any additional premium and terms of coverage required by us.

SECTION F: PROFESSIONAL FEES
We agree to reimburse you for any reasonable sums necessarily incurred for professional fees to establish the value of 
your actual loss sustained as a direct result of an interruption to your business activities.
INSURING CLAUSE 4: COURT ATTENDANCE COSTS
We agree to reimburse you for any reasonable sums necessarily incurred by you with our prior written agreement 
(which will not be unreasonably withheld) to attend court or any tribunal, arbitration, adjudication, mediation or other 
hearing in connection with any claim for which you are entitled to indemnity under this Policy.

 

HOW MUCH WE WILL PAY

 

The maximum amount payable by us in respect of each Section of each Insuring Clause will not exceed the limit of 
liability.

Notwithstanding the limit of liability, for any claim made against you within the United States of America or territories 
which come under the jurisdiction of the United States of America, the limit of liability will be an annual aggregate limit 
for all claims under this Policy and inclusive of costs and expenses.

However, with respect to any claim under this Policy that is governed by Quebec law, we agree to pay costs and 
expenses in addition to the limit of liability.

In respect of INSURING CLAUSE 1, where more than one claim under this Policy arises from the same original cause or 
single source or event, all of those claims will be deemed to be one claim and only one limit of liability will be payable.

We may at any time pay to you in connection with any claim the amount of the limit of liability (after deduction of any 
amounts already paid). Upon that payment being made we will relinquish the conduct and control of the claim and be 
under no further liability in connection with that claim.


6

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

If costs and expenses are stated in the Declarations page to be in addition to the limit of liability, or if the operation of 
local laws require costs and expenses to be paid in addition to the limit of liability, and if a damages payment in excess 
of the limit of liability has to be made to dispose of any claim, our liability for costs and expenses will be in the same 
proportion as the limit of liability bears to the total amount of the damages payment.

In respect of INSURING CLAUSE 2 (SECTIONS A and B only), the co-insurance percentage is 85%. This means that if the 
amount insured for each building address is less than 85% of the total cost to repair, replace or rebuild your premises or 
contents at that building address, the amount insured will be reduced in the same proportion that it bears to the co-
insurance percentage amount.

Example for calculating under insurance:

a. Total cost to repair, replace or rebuild all of your premises at building address 1 = $500,000;
b. 85% of $500,000 = $425,000;
c. Amount insured for premises at building address 1 = $400,000;
d. Therefore if a $450,000 loss for damage to the premises at building address 1 occurs, we would pay $376,470;
e. This has been calculated as the amount insured / co-insurance percentage amount of the total cost to repair, 
replace or rebuild x amount insured ($400,000 / $425,000 x $400,000 = $376,470).

If we pay to replace your contents, we will do so on a new for old basis.

 

YOUR DEDUCTIBLE

 

We will only be liable for that part of each and every claim which exceeds the amount of the deductible. If any 
expenditure is incurred by us which falls within the amount of the deductible, then you will reimburse that amount to us 
upon our request.

However, with respect to any claim arising out of bodily injury under this Policy that is governed by Quebec law, the 
deductible will not apply to costs and expenses.

Where more than one claim arises from the same original cause or single source or event all of those claims will be 
deemed to be one claim and only one deductible will apply.

Where cover is provided under multiple Sections or multiple Insuring Clauses only one deductible will apply to that claim 
and this will be the highest deductible of the Sections under which cover is provided.


7

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

 

DEFINITIONS

 

1. "Actual loss sustained" means
your revenue before tax that you would have earned without the interruption to your business activities or damage 
to your premises, less:

a. actual revenue less sales tax; and
b. any saving in costs as a result of the reduction in revenue.

2. "Administration" means
a. advising employees, including their dependants and beneficiaries, in respect of your employee benefit 
program;
b. handling records in respect of your employee benefit program; and
c. effecting enrolment or termination of any employee's participation in a plan included in your employee 
benefit program.

3. "Advertising injury" means
a. oral or written publication of defamatory content;
b. oral or written publication of content that violates a person's right of privacy; or
c. infringement of copyright, trade dress, slogan or a third party's advertising idea;

in your advertising or promotional material.

4. "Bodily injury" means
death, bodily injury, mental injury, illness or disease.

5. "Building address" means
a building address stated in the Commercial Property and Business Interruption Sub-limits Declarations page.

6. "Claim" means
a. a written demand for compensation;
b. a written request for a retraction or a correction;
c. a threat or initiation of a lawsuit; or
d. an investigation;

made against you.

7. "Claims managers" means
the claims managers stated in the Declarations page.

8. "Company" means
the company named as the insured in the Declarations page or any subsidiary.


8

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

9. "Contents" means
items that are used primarily in connection with your business activities and are not permanently attached to a 
building that you own or are legally responsible for, including:

a. improvements made to the premises by you as a tenant, including decorating, flooring, internal fixtures and 
fittings, external signs, aerials and satellite dishes;
b. computers and ancillary equipment (including monitors, keyboards, printers and software);
c. television, video, photographic, photocopying, surveying and telecommunications equipment;
d. goods held in trust, stock and samples;
e. wines, spirits and tobacco kept for entertainment purposes;
f. works of art or precious metals;
g. valuable documents in paper format;
h. heating oil contained in fixed tanks in the open at your premises;
i. refrigeration, ventilation, cooking, dishwashing and laundry appliances;
j. portable contents and contents while in transit; and
k. cash, bank and currency notes, cheques, bankers drafts, share and bond certificates, provided they are kept 
in a locked safe, in transit or at the home of an employee.

"Contents" also means the personal belongings of any employee or visitor whilst at your premises, provided they are 
not covered under any other insurance.

10. "Costs and expenses" means
a. third party legal and professional expenses (including disbursements) reasonably incurred in the defense of 
claims or circumstances which could reasonably be expected to give rise to a claim or in quashing or 
challenging the scope of any injunction, subpoena or witness summons;
b. any post judgment interest; and
c. the cost of appeal, attachment and similar bonds including bail and penal bonds.

Subject to all costs and expenses being incurred with the claims managers prior written agreement (which will not 
be unreasonably withheld).

11. "Deductible" means
the amount stated as the deductible in the Declarations page.

12. "Earth movement" means
any type of earth movement, including earthquake, subsidence, landslide, erosion or the expansion or contraction of 
soil.

Earth movement does not mean any sinkhole collapse.

13. "Employee" means
any employee, volunteer or contract employee of the company.

14. "Employee benefit program" means
the company's insurance, pension or other benefit programs.


9

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

15. "Expiry date" means
the expiry date stated in the Declarations page.

16. "Flood" means
a. surface water, underground water, waves, tides, tidal waves, tsunamis or overflow of any body of water;
b. mudslide or mudflow; or
c. water or sewerage from a backed up sewer, sump, septic tank or drain.

17. "Inception date" means
the inception date stated in the Declarations page.

18. "Indemnity period" means
the period beginning on the date the:

a. damage was first discovered;
b. prevention of access first occurred; or
c. initial 24 consecutive hours you have no water, gas, electricity, telephony or internet services has passed;

and lasting for the indemnity period stated in the Declarations page.

19. "Investigation" means
a formal hearing, official investigation, examination or any other similar proceeding initiated by a governmental, 
regulatory, law enforcement, professional or statutory body.

20. "Limit of liability" means
if expressed in the Declarations page as:

a. limit of liability or amount insured, the maximum amount payable by us in respect of each claim; or
b. aggregate limit of liability or aggregate amount insured, the maximum amount payable by us in respect of 
all claims.

21. "Medical expenses" means
reasonable and necessary expenses for:

a. first aid administered at the time of an accident;
b. medical, surgical, x-ray and dental services, including prosthetic devices; and
c. ambulance, hospital, professional nursing and funeral services.

22. "Period of the policy" means
the period between the inception date and the expiry date or until the Policy is canceled in accordance with 
CONDITION 5.

23. "Personal injury" means
a. false arrest, detention or imprisonment;
b. malicious prosecution; or
c. wrongful entry into, or eviction of a person from, a room, dwelling or premises that the person occupies.


10

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

24. "Pollutants" means
any solid, liquid, gaseous, radiological or thermal irritant, toxic or hazardous substance, or contaminant including, but 
not limited to smoke, vapor, soot, fumes, acids, alkalis, chemicals and waste materials, including recycled, 
reconditioned or reclaimed materials.

25. "Pollution" means
the discharge, dispersal, release, migration, seepage or escape of pollutants.

26. "Premises" means
a. the building;
b. any completed extension to the building;
c. any permanently installed machinery and equipment;
d. any permanently attached fixtures and fittings;
e. landlord's fixtures and fittings;
f. retaining walls, outdoor walls, gates, fences, yards, car parks, roadways and pavements;
g. trees, shrubs, plants and lawns;
h. piping, ducting, cables, wires and accessories extending to the public mains that you are responsible for; 
and
i. fixed glass in windows, doors, skylights, mirrors fixed to the building, glass showcases and shelves fixed to 
the building, sanitary fixtures and fittings and other fixed glass;

at the building address.

27. "Premium" means
the amount stated as the premium in the Declarations page and any subsequent adjustments.

28. "Product" means
any tangible property that has been manufactured, altered, distributed or installed by you or on your behalf.

29. "Property damage" means
direct physical damage to, destruction of, loss of possession or loss of use of tangible property.

30. "Rental income" means
a. the anticipated gross rental income from tenant occupancy of your premises;
b. the amount of all charges which are the legal obligation of the tenants, which would otherwise be your 
obligation; and
c. the fair rental value of any portion of your premises which is occupied by you.

31. "Retroactive date" means
the retroactive date stated in the Declarations page.

32. "Senior executive officer" means
board members, C-level executives, in-house lawyers and risk managers of the company.


11

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

33. "Subsidiary" means
any entity of which the company stated as the insured in the Declarations page has majority ownership on or before 
the inception date.

34. "Third party" means
any person who is not an employee or any legal entity that is not the company.

35. "We/our/us" means
the underwriters stated in the Declarations page.

36. "You/your" means
the company and employees.

 

EXCLUSIONS

 

We will not make any payment under this Policy:
EXCLUSIONS RELATING TO COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
In respect of INSURING CLAUSE 1 only: 

1. Employers' liability
arising directly or indirectly out of bodily injury to senior executive officers or employees.

However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSE 1 (SECTION F only).

2. Faulty workmanship
for the cost to repair or replace, including any ensuing financial loss:

a. that part of any property that has been damaged by you, or a third party operating on your behalf, during 
its construction, distribution or installation;
b. that part of any property as a direct result of faulty workmanship by you, or a third party operating on your 
behalf, during its construction or installation; or
c. any undamaged property that contains any product, unless the product which the property contains has 
been damaged as a direct result of a sudden, unintended and unexpected incident after it has left your care, 
custody or control.

3. Financial loss
arising directly or indirectly out of third party financial loss, other than third party financial loss resulting from bodily 
injury, personal injury, advertising injury or property damage.

4. Land or water
arising directly or indirectly from damage to land or water within or below the boundaries of any land or premises 
presently or at any time previously owned or leased by you or otherwise in your care, custody or control.


12

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

5. Marine and aviation
arising directly or indirectly from the ownership, possession or use by you or on your behalf of any watercraft in 
excess of 10 metres in length or any aircraft, drone, hovercraft, watercraft, offshore installation, offshore rig or offshore 
platform.

6. Pollution
arising directly or indirectly out of pollution.

However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSE 1 (SECTION B only).

7. Products liability
arising directly or indirectly out of any product.

However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSE 1 (SECTION C only).

8. Property in your care, custody or control
arising directly or indirectly out of damage to third party property which is in your care, custody or control.

However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSE 1 (SECTION D only).
In respect of INSURING CLAUSE 1, SECTION C: 

9. Product recall
for the costs to withdraw, recall, dispose, remove, repair, adjust, alter, recondition, replace, reinstate any product or 
part of a product.
In respect of INSURING CLAUSE 1, SECTION E: 

10. Content advertised prior to the inception date
arising directly or indirectly out of any advertisement that was first published prior to the inception date.
In respect of INSURING CLAUSE 1, SECTION H: 

11. Benefit laws
arising directly or indirectly out of your failure to comply with the mandatory provisions of any law concerning 
workers' compensation, unemployment insurance, social security, disability benefits or pension benefits.

12. Breach of contract
arising directly or indirectly out of any breach of contract unless liability would have attached in the absence of the 
contract.

13. Employee benefit program advice
arising directly or indirectly from advice given to any person to participate or not to participate in any plan included in 
your employee benefit program or the failure of any investment to perform as represented by you.
EXCLUSIONS RELATING TO COMMERCIAL PROPERTY
In respect of INSURING CLAUSE 2 only: 

14. Excluded property
for the costs to repair, replace or rebuild:


13

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

a. the foundations of your premises;
b. the foundations of any structure, machinery or boiler contained inside of your premises if they are below the 
lowest basement floor or ground level if there is no basement;
c. underground pipes, flues or drains;
d. power transmission or feeder lines; or
e. land or growing crops.
EXCLUSIONS RELATING TO ALL INSURING CLAUSES
15. Asbestos
arising directly or indirectly out of the manufacturing, mining, use, sale, installation, removal, distribution of or 
exposure to asbestos, materials or products containing asbestos or asbestos fibres or dust.

16. Associated companies
a. in respect of any claim made by any company firm or partnership in which the company has an executive or 
financial interest, unless the claim emanates from an independent third party;
b. in respect of any claim made by any company firm partnership or individual which has an executive or 
financial interest in the company, unless the claim emanates from an independent third party;
c. arising out of any joint venture between you and a third party;
d. arising out of or resulting from any of your activities as a trustee, partner, officer, director or employee of any 
employee trust, charitable organization, corporation, company or business other than that of the company; 
or
e. in respect of any claim made by or on behalf of the company against a third party.

17. Auto
arising directly or indirectly from the ownership, possession or use by you or on your behalf of any motor vehicle or 
trailer other than bodily injury or property damage:

a. caused by the use of any tool or equipment forming part of or attached to or used in connection with any 
motor vehicle or trailer;
b. occurring beyond the limits of any carriageway or thoroughfare and caused by the loading or unloading of 
any motor vehicle or trailer;
c. arising out of the use of any motor vehicle or trailer temporarily in your custody or control for the purpose of 
parking; or
d. occurring beyond the limits of any carriageway or thoroughfare and caused by the use of any unlicensed 
vehicle, including but not limited to snowmobiles and all terrain vehicles, in the course of your business 
activities;

provided always that we will not make any payment in respect of any legal liability for which compulsory insurance or 
security is required by legislation or for which a government or other authority has accepted responsibility.

18. Catastrophe perils
in respect of INSURING CLAUSES 2 and 3, arising directly or indirectly out of earth movement or flood, except for:


14

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

a. ensuing financial loss or property damage which results directly from fire, explosion, smoke or leakage from 
fire protective equipment; or
b. ensuing property damage while in transit.

19. Circumstances known at inception
arising directly or indirectly out of any circumstances or occurrences which may give rise to a claim under this Policy 
of which a senior executive officer was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, prior to the inception date, 
whether notified under any other insurance or not.

20. Directors and officers liability
arising out of any personal liability incurred by your senior executive officers when they are acting in that capacity 
or managing you, or arising from any statement, representation or information regarding your business contained 
within any accounts, reports or financial statements.

21. Electronic data
arising out of the destruction of, loss of possession of, loss of use of, or corruption of, data, by a malicious or 
unauthorized electronic attack or malicious code.

22. Employment practices liability
arising out of or resulting from:

a. any employer-employee relations, policies, practices, acts, omissions, any actual or alleged refusal to employ 
any person, or misconduct with respect to employees; or
b. any acts or omissions committed by you which are in breach of, or are alleged to be in breach of, any terms 
and conditions of an employment contract, whether express or implied.

23. Equipment breakdown
in respect of INSURING CLAUSES 2 and 3, arising directly from the breakdown, explosion or collapse of any electrical 
or mechanical equipment including air conditioning, refrigeration, boiler, computer and communication equipment.

24. Excluded causes
in respect of INSURING CLAUSES 2 and 3, arising directly or indirectly from:

a. wear and tear, an inherent defect, rot, vermin, infestation, ground heave, subsidence, landslip or any other 
gradually operating cause; or
b. frost, other than property damage due to water leaking from burst pipes forming part of the permanent 
internal plumbing provided the premises are occupied and in use.

25. Legal action
where an action for damages is brought in a court of law outside the legal action territories stated in the Declarations 
page, or where an action is brought in a court of law within those territories to enforce a judgment outside of those 
territories whether by way of reciprocal agreement or otherwise.

26. Nuclear
arising directly or indirectly from or contributed to by:


15

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

a. ionizing radiations or contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste from 
the combustion of nuclear fuel; or
b. the radioactive, toxic, explosive or other hazardous properties of any explosive nuclear assembly or nuclear 
component.

27. Other insurance
for which you are entitled to indemnity under any other insurance except for:

a. any additional sum which is payable over and above the other insurance where that insurance has been 
declared to us, or
b. any contribution that we are obliged to make by law and that contribution will be in proportion to the 
indemnity available under the Policies.

28. Personal liability
in respect of any action brought against any past, present or future senior executive officer or employee unless 
arising directly out of work performed for the company.

29. Professional services
arising directly or indirectly from carrying out, or failing to carry out, professional services for a fee or any act, error or 
omission relating to a professional service.

30. Retroactive date
in respect of INSURING CLAUSE 1 (SECTION H only), arising out of any actual or alleged act, error or omission 
occurring, in whole or in part, on or before the retroactive date.

31. Sanctions
to the extent that the provision of such cover or payment will expose us to any sanction, prohibition or restriction 
under the United Nations resolutions or the trade or economic sanctions, laws or regulations of Australia, Canada, the 
European Union, United Kingdom or United States of America.

32. Seizure of illegal property
arising from an order by a public or government authority which deprives you of the use or value of your property or 
arising from acts of contraband or illegal transportation or illegal trade.

33. Toxic mould
arising directly or indirectly from the toxic properties of any fungus, mould, mildew or yeast.

34. Uninsurable fines
for fines, penalties, civil or criminal sanctions, and for multiple, punitive or exemplary damages, unless insurable by 
law.

35. Vacant premises
in respect of INSURING CLAUSES 2 and 3, resulting from premises left vacant for more than 60 consecutive days.

36. War and terrorism
arising directly or indirectly out of:


16

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

a. war, invasion, acts of foreign enemies, hostilities or warlike operations (whether war is declared or not), civil 
war, rebellion, insurrection, civil commotion assuming the proportions of or mounting to an uprising, 
military or usurped power; or
b. any act or threat of force or violence by an individual or group, whether acting alone or on behalf of or in 
connection with any organization or government, committed for political, religious, ideological or similar 
purposes including the intention to influence any government or to put the public, or any section of the 
public, in fear; and
c. any action taken in controlling, preventing, suppressing or in any way relating to a. or b. above.

37. Willful or dishonest acts of senior executive officers
arising directly or indirectly out of any wilful, criminal, malicious or dishonest act, error or omission by a senior 
executive officer as determined by final adjudication, arbitral tribunal or written admission.

 

CONDITIONS

 

1. What you must do in the event of a claim
If any senior executive officer becomes aware of any incident which may reasonably be expected to give rise to a 
claim under this Policy you must:

a. not admit liability for or settle or make or promise any payment or incur any costs and expenses without 
our prior written agreement (which will not be unreasonably withheld); and
b. notify the claims managers as soon as is reasonably practicable and follow their directions. However, in 
respect of INSURING CLAUSE 1 (SECTION H only) this notification must be made no later than the end of the 
applicable extended reporting period.

2. Additional insureds
We will indemnify any third party as an additional insured under this Policy, but only in respect of sums which they 
become legally obliged to pay (including liability for claimants' costs and expenses) as a result of a claim arising solely 
out of an act committed by you, provided that:

a. you contracted in writing to indemnify the third party for the claim prior to it first being made against 
them; and
b. had the claim been made against you, then you would be entitled to indemnity under this Policy.

Before we indemnify any additional insured they must:

a. prove to us that the claim arose solely out of an act committed by you; and
b. fully comply with CONDITION 1 as if they were you.

Where a third party is treated as an additional insured as a result of this Condition, any claim made by that third 
party against you will be treated by us as if they were a third party and not as an insured.


17

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

3. Agreement to pay claims (duty to defend)
We have the right and duty to take control of and conduct in your name the investigation settlement or defence of 
any claim. We will not, however, have any duty to pay costs and expenses of any part of any claim that is not covered 
by this Policy.

We will always endeavor to settle any claim through negotiation, mediation or some other form of alternative dispute 
resolution and will pay on your behalf the amount we agree with the claimant. If we cannot settle using these 
means, we will pay the amount which you are found liable to pay either in court or through arbitration proceedings, 
subject always to the limit of liability.

If you refuse to consent to a settlement that we recommend and that the claimant will accept, you must then 
defend, investigate or settle the claim at your own expense. As a consequence of your refusal, our liability for any 
claim will not be more than the amount that we could have settled the claim for had you consented, plus any costs 
and expenses incurred prior to the date of your refusal.

4. Calculation of loss
In the event of a claim for any financial loss sustained by you, you must provide the claims managers with your 
calculation of the financial loss including:

a. how the loss has been calculated and what assumptions have been made; and
b. supporting documents including account statements, sales projections and invoices.

If we are unable to agree with your calculation, an appropriate third party expert will be appointed by the claims 
managers.

5. Cancellation
This Policy may be canceled with 30 days written notice by either you or us.

If you give us notice of cancellation, the return premium will be in proportion to the number of days that the Policy is 
in effect, subject to a minimum retained amount of 30% of the premium. However, if you have made a claim under 
this Policy there will be no return premium.

If we give you notice of cancellation, the return premium will be in proportion to the number of days that the Policy 
is in effect.

We also reserve the right of cancellation in the event that any amount due to us by you remains unpaid more than 
60 days beyond the inception date. If we exercise this right of cancellation it will take effect from 14 days after the 
date the written notice of cancellation is issued.

The Policy Administration Fee will be deemed fully earned upon inception of the Policy.

6. Cross liability and severability
Where there is more than one entity insured under this Policy, and subject to the limit of liability, any claim made by 
one insured entity against another insured entity will be treated as if they are a third party and knowledge possessed 
by one insured entity will not be imputed to any other insured entity.


18

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

7. Establishing loss of contents
If you make a claim under this Policy for loss of contents, you must reasonably establish how and when the incident 
took place, this may include confirmation that the incident was reported to the appropriate law enforcement 
authorities and details of any investigation they undertook.

8. Automatic extended reporting period
In respect of INSURING CLAUSE 1 (SECTION H only), an automatic extended reporting period of 60 days following the 
expiry date of this Policy will be automatically granted at no additional premium. This automatic extended reporting 
period will cover claims first made against you during the period of the policy and reported to us during this 60 day 
automatic extended reporting period but only in respect of any act, error or omission committed prior to the expiry 
date and subject to all other terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy. No claim will be accepted by us in this 60 
day automatic extended reporting period if you are entitled to indemnity under any other insurance or would have 
been entitled to indemnity under that insurance but for its exhaustion.

9. Optional extended reporting period
In respect of INSURING CLAUSE 1 (SECTION H only), if we or you decline to renew or cancel this Policy then you will 
have the right to have issued an endorsement providing an optional extended reporting period for the duration 
stated in the Declarations page which will be effective from the cancellation or non-renewal date. This optional 
extended reporting period will cover claims first made against you and notified to us during this optional extended 
reporting period but only in respect of any claim arising out of any act, error or omission committed prior to the date 
of cancellation or non-renewal and subject to all other terms and conditions of the Policy.

The right to the optional extended reporting period will not be available to you where cancellation or non-renewal by 
us is due to non-payment of the premium or your failure to pay any amounts in excess of the applicable limit of 
liability or within the amount of the applicable deductible as is required by this Policy in the payment of claims.

At the renewal of this Policy, our quotation of different premium, deductible or limit of liability or changes in policy 
language will not constitute non-renewal by us.

10. Fraudulent claims
If you notify us of any claim knowing it to be false or fraudulent in any way, we will have no responsibility to pay that 
claim, we may recover from you any sums paid in respect of that claim and we reserve the right to terminate this 
Policy from the date of the fraudulent act. If we exercise this right we will not be liable to return any premium to you. 
However, this will not affect any claim under this Policy which has been previously notified to us.

11. Innocent non-disclosure
We will not seek to avoid the Policy or reject any claim on the grounds of non-disclosure or misrepresentation except 
where the non-disclosure or misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate.

12. Mergers and acquisitions
During the period of the policy, if you acquire another entity's assets or liabilities in an amount greater than 20% of 
your assets or liabilities as listed in your most recent financial statement then you will have no coverage under this 
Policy for any claim that arises directly or indirectly out of these assets or liabilities unless you give us written notice 


19

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

within 60 days of the completion of the acquisition, obtain our written agreement to extend coverage, and agree to 
any additional premium and terms of coverage required by us.

If during the period of the policy you consolidate, merge with or are acquired by another entity then all coverage 
under this Policy will terminate at the date of the consolidation, merger or acquisition unless we have issued an 
endorsement extending coverage, and you have agreed to any additional premium and terms of coverage required 
by us.

13. Our rights of recovery
You must maintain all of your rights of recovery against any third party and make these available to us where 
possible.

We will not exercise any rights of recovery against employees, unless this is in respect of any fraudulent or dishonest 
acts or omissions as proven by final adjudication, arbitral tribunal or written admission by you.

Any recoveries will be applied in proportion to the amounts paid by you and us.

14. Prior subsidiaries
Should an entity cease to be a subsidiary after the inception date, cover in respect of the entity will continue as if it 
was still a subsidiary during the period of the policy, but only in respect of an event occurring prior to the date that 
it ceased to be a subsidiary.

15. Waiver of subrogation
We agree to waive our rights of recovery against a third party if you have entered into a contract that contains a 
provision requiring you to do this.

16. Choice of law
This Policy will be interpreted under, governed by and construed in all respects in accordance with the law of the 
jurisdiction of the place of registration of the company named as the insured in the Declarations page and we and 
you agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts within the territorial limits and jurisdiction of the place 
of registration of the company named as the insured in the Declarations page.

In any action to enforce our obligations under this Policy we can be named as “Lloyd's Underwriters” which will be 
binding on the Lloyd's Underwriters liable under this Policy as if we had each been individually named as defendants. 
Service of these proceedings may be made upon the Attorney In Fact in Canada for Lloyd's Underwriters at the 
address 1155, rue Metcalfe, Suite 2220, Montreal, Quebec, H3B 2V6.

 

STATUTORY CONDITIONS

 

1. Misrepresentation
If a person applying for insurance falsely describes the property to the prejudice of the Insurer, or misrepresents or 
fraudulently omits to communicate any circumstance that is material to be made known to the Insurer in order to 
enable it to judge of the risk to be undertaken, the contract is void as to any property in relation to which the 
misrepresentation or omission is material.


20

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

2. Property of others
Unless otherwise specifically stated in the contract, the Insurer is not liable for loss or damage to property owned by 
any person other than the Insured, unless the interest of the Insured therein is stated in the contract.

3. Change of interest
The Insurer is liable for loss or damage occurring after an authorized assignment under the Bankruptcy Act or 
change of title by succession, by operation of law, or by death.

4. Material change
Any change material to the risk and within the control and knowledge of the Insured avoids the contract as to the 
part affected thereby, unless the change is promptly notified in writing to the Insurer or its local agent; and the 
Insurer when so notified may return the unearned portion, if any, of the premium paid and cancel the contract, or 
may notify the Insured in writing that, if he desires the contract to continue in force, he must within fifteen (15) days of 
the receipt of the notice, pay to the Insurer an additional premium; and in default of such payment the contract is no 
longer in force and the Insurer shall return the unearned portion, if any, of the premium paid.

5. Requirements after loss
a. Upon the occurrence of any loss of or damage to the insured property, the lnsured shall, if the loss or 
damage is covered by the contract, in addition to observing the requirements of Conditions 9, 10 and 11:
i. forthwith give notice thereof in writing to the Insurer;
ii. deliver as soon as practicable to the Insurer a proof of loss verified by a statutory declaration,
1. giving a complete inventory of the destroyed and damaged property and showing in 
detail quantities, costs, actual cash value and particulars of amount of loss claimed,
2. stating when and how the loss occurred, and if caused by fire or explosion due to ignition, 
how the fire or explosion originated, so far as the Insured knows or believes,
3. stating that the loss did not occur through any wilful act or neglect or the procurement, 
means or connivance of the Insured,
4. showing the amount of other insurance and the names of other Insurers,
5. showing the interest of the lnsured and of all others in the property with particulars of all 
liens, encumbrances and other charges upon the property,
6. showing any changes in title, use, occupation, location, possession or exposures of the 
property since the issue of the contract,
7. showing the place where the property insured was at the time of loss,

iii. if required give a complete inventory of undamaged property and showing in detail quantities, 
cost, actual cash value;
iv. if required and if practicable, produce books of account, warehouse receipts and stock lists, and 
furnish invoices and other vouchers verified by statutory declaration, and furnish a copy of the 
written portion of any other contract.

b. The evidence furnished under Clauses 1 (c) and (d) of this condition shall not be considered proofs of loss 
within the meaning of Statutory Conditions 12 and 13.


21

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

6. Termination
a. The contract may be terminated:
i. by the insurer giving to the insured fifteen (15) days' notice of termination by registered mail or 5 
days' written notice of termination personally delivered; or
ii. by the insured at any time on request.

b. If the contract is terminated by the insurer:
i. the insurer must refund the excess of premium actually paid by the insured over the prorated 
premium for the expired time, but in no event may the prorated premium for the expired time be 
less than any minimum retained premium specified in the contract; and
ii. the refund must accompany the notice unless the premium is subject to adjustment or 
determination as to amount, in which case the refund must be made as soon as practicable.

c. If the contract is terminated by the insured, the insurer must refund as soon as practicable the excess of the 
premium actually paid by the insured over the short rate premium for the expired time specified in the 
contract, but in no event may the short rate premium for the expired time be less than any 
minimum retained premium specified in the contract.
d. The 15 day period referred to in subparagraph (1) (a) of this condition starts to run on the day the registered 
letter or notification of it is delivered to the insured's postal address. 

7. Fraud
Any fraud or wilfully false statement in a statutory declaration in relation to any of the above particulars, vitiates the 
claim of the person making the declaration.

8. Who may give notice and proof
Notice of loss may be given, and proof of loss may be made, by the agent of the Insured named in the contract in 
case of absence or inability of the Insured to give the notice or make the proof, and absence or inability being 
satisfactorily accounted for, or in the like case, or if the Insured refuses to do so, by a person to whom any part of the 
insurance money is payable.

9. Salvage
a. The Insured in the event of any loss or damage to any property insured under the contract, shall take all 
reasonable steps to prevent further damage to any such property so damaged and to prevent damage to 
other property insured hereunder including, if necessary, its removal to prevent damage or further damage 
thereto.
b. The Insurer shall contribute pro rata towards any reasonable and proper expenses in connection with steps 
taken by the Insured and required under subparagraph 1 of this condition according to the respective 
interests of the parties.

10. Entry, control, abandonment
After loss or damage to insured property, the Insurer has an immediate right of access and entry by accredited 
agents sufficient to enable them to survey and examine the property, and to make an estimate of the loss or damage, 
and after the Insured has secured the property, a further right of access and entry sufficient to enable them to make 


22

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

appraisal or particular estimate of the loss or damage, but the Insurer is not entitled to the control or possession of 
the insured property, and without the consent of the Insurer there can be no abandonment to it of insured property.

11. When loss payable
The loss is payable within sixty (60) days after completion of the proof of loss, unless the contract provides for a 
shorter period.

12. Repair or replacement
a. The Insurer, instead of making payment, may repair, rebuild, or replace the property damaged or lost, giving 
written notice of its intention so to do within thirty days after receipt of the proofs of loss
b. In that event the Insurer shall commence to so repair, rebuild or replace the property within forty-five (45) 
days after receipt of the proofs of loss, and shall thereafter proceed with all due diligence to the completion 
thereof.

13. Action
Every action or proceeding against the Insurer for the recovery of any claim under or by virtue of this contract is 
absolutely barred unless commenced within one year next after the loss or damage occurs.

14. Notice
Any written notice to the Insurer may be delivered at, or sent by registered mail to, the chief agent or head office of 
the Insurer in the Province. Written notice may be given to the Insured named in this contract by letter personally 
delivered to him or by registered mail addressed to him at his latest post office address as notified to the Insurer. In 
this condition, the expression “registered” means registered in or outside Canada.

15. In case of disagreement
In the event of disagreement as to the value of the property insured, the property saved or the amount of the loss, 
those questions shall be determined by appraisal as provided under the Insurance Act before there can be any 
recovery under this contract whether the right to recover on the contract is disputed or not, and independently of all 
other questions. There shall be no right to an appraisal until a specified demand therefor is made in writing and until 
after proof of loss has been delivered.

 

NOTICE CONCERNING PERSONAL INFORMATION

 

By purchasing insurance from certain Underwriters at Lloyd's, London (“Lloyd's”), a customer provides Lloyd's with his or 
her agreement to the collection, use and disclosure of personal information, including that previously collected, for the 
following purposes:

 the communication with Lloyd's policyholders
 the underwriting of policies
 the evaluation of claims
 the detection and prevention of fraud
 the analysis of business results
 purposes required or authorized by law


23

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

For the purposes identified, personal information may be disclosed to Lloyd's related or affiliated organizations or 
companies, their agents/mandataires, and to certain non-related or unaffiliated organizations or companies, including 
service providers. These entities may be located outside Canada therefore a customer's information may be processed in 
a foreign jurisdiction (the United Kingdom and the European Union) and their information may be accessible to law 
enforcement and national security authorities of that jurisdiction.

To obtain written information about Lloyd's policies and practices in respect of service providers located outside Canada, 
please contact the Ombudsman at info@lloyds.ca who will also answer customer's questions about the collection, use, 
disclosure or storage of their personal information by such Lloyd's service providers.

Further information about Lloyd's personal information protection policy may be obtained from the customer's broker or 
by contacting Lloyd's on: 514 861 8361, 1 877 455 6937, or through info@lloyds.ca.

 

LLOYD'S UNDERWRITERS POLICYHOLDERS COMPLAINT PROTOCOL

 

Lloyd's strives to enhance your customer experience with us through superior service and innovative insurance products.

We have developed a formal complaint handling protocol in accordance with the Insurance Companies Act of Canada to 
ensure your concerns as our valued customer are addressed expeditiously by our representatives. This protocol will assist 
you in understanding the steps we will undertake to help resolve any dispute which may arise with our product or 
service. All complaints will be handled in a professional manner. All complaints will be investigated, acted upon, and 
responded to in writing or by telephone by a Lloyd's representative promptly after the receipt of the complaint. If you are 
not satisfied with our products or services, you can take the following steps to address the issue:

a. Firstly, please contact the broker who arranged the insurance on your behalf about your concerns so that he or 
she may have the opportunity to help resolve the situation.
b. If your broker is unable to help resolve your concerns, we ask that you provide us in writing an outline of your 
complaint along with the name of your broker and your policy number.

Please forward your complaint to:

Lloyd's Underwriters
Attention: Complaints Officer:
1155 rue Metcalfe, Suite 2220, Montréal (Québec) H3B 2V6
Tel: 1-877-455-6937     Fax: (514) 861-0470
E-mail: lineage@lloyds.ca

Your complaint will be directed to the appropriate business contact for handling. They will write to you within two 
business days to acknowledge receipt of your complaint and to let you know when you can expect a full response. If need 
be, we will also engage internal staff in Lloyd's Policyholder and Market Assistance Department in London, England, who 
will respond directly to you, and in the last stages, they will issue a final letter of position on your complaint.

In the event that your concerns are still not addressed to your satisfaction, your have the right to continue your pursuit to 
have your complaint reviewed by the following organizations:


24

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

General Insurance OmbudService (GIO) assists in the resolution of conflicts between insurance customers and their 
insurance companies. The GIO can be reached at:

Toll free number: 1-877-225-0446
www.giocanada.org

 

For Quebec clients:

Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF). The regulation of insurance companies in Quebec is administered by the AMF. If 
you remain dissatisfied with the manner in which your complaint has been handled, or with the results of the complaint 
protocol, you may send your complaint to the AMF who will study your file and who may recommend mediation, if it 
deems this action appropriate and if both parties agree to it. The AMF can be reached at

Toll Free: 1-877-525-0337
Québec: (418) 525-0337
Montréal: (514) 395-0311
www.lautorite.qc.ca

If you have a complaint specifically about Lloyd's Underwriters' complaints handling procedures you may contact the 
Financial Consumer Agency of Canada (FCAC).

Financial Consumer Agency of Canada (FCAC) provides consumers with accurate and objective information about 
financial products and services, and informs Canadians of their rights and responsibilities when dealing with financial 
institutions. FCAC also ensures compliance with the federal consumer protection laws that apply to banks and federally 
incorporated trust, loan and insurance companies. The FCAC does not get involved in individual disputes. The FCAC can 
be reached at:

427 Laurier Avenue West, 6th Floor, Ottawa ON K1R 1B9
Services in English: 1-866-461-FCAC (3222)
Services in French: 1-866-461-ACFC (2232)
www.fcac-acfc.gc.ca

 

SUBSCRIPTION NOTICE

 

IN CONSIDERATION OF THE INSURED having paid or agreed to pay each of the INSURERS named in the List of 
Subscribing Companies forming part hereof, or to INSURERS whose names are substituted therefor or added thereto by 
endorsement, hereinafter called “THE INSURERS”, the Premium set against its name in the List of Subscribing Companies 
(attached hereto),


25

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

THE INSURERS SEVERALLY AND NOT JOINTLY agree, each for the Sum(s) Insured or Percentage(s) and for the 
Coverage(s) Insured set against its name in the List of Subscribing Companies, and subject always to the terms and 
conditions of this Policy, that if a loss occurs for which insurance is provided by this Policy at any time while it is in force, 
they will indemnify the INSURED against the loss so caused; the liability of each insurer individually for such loss being 
limited to that proportion of the loss payable according to the terms and conditions of this Policy which the Sum Insured 
or the amount corresponding to the Percentage set against its name in the List of Subscribing Companies, or such other 
sum or percentage as may be substituted therefor by endorsement, bears to the total of the sums insured or of the 
amounts corresponding to the percentages of the sums insured respectively set out against the coverage concerned in 
the Declarations page(s).

Wherever in this Policy, or in any endorsement attached hereto, reference is made to “The Company”, “The Insurer”, “This 
Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”, reference will be deemed to be made to each of the Insurers severally.

This policy is made and accepted subject to the foregoing provisions, and to the other provisions, stipulations and 
conditions contained herein, which are hereby specially referred to and made a part of this Policy, as well as such other 
provisions, agreements or conditions as may be endorsed hereon or added hereto.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE INSURERS through their representative(s) duly authorized by them for this purpose have 
executed and signed this Policy.

 

CODE OF CONSUMER RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES

 

Insurers (including Lloyd's Underwriters), along with the brokers and agents who sell home, auto and business insurance 
are committed to safeguarding your rights both when you shop for insurance and when you submit a claim following a 
loss. Your rights include the right to be informed fully, to be treated fairly, to timely complaint resolution, and to privacy. 
These rights are grounded in the contract between you and your insurer and the insurance laws of your province. With 
rights, however, come responsibilities including, for example, the expectation that you will provide complete and 
accurate information to your insurer. Your policy outlines other important responsibilities. Insurers and their distribution 
networks, and governments also have important roles to play in ensuring that your rights are protected.

Right to be informed

You can expect to access clear information about your policy, your coverage, and the claims settlement process. You have 
the right to an easy-to-understand explanation of how insurance works and how it will meet your needs. You also have a 
right to know how insurers calculate price based on relevant facts. Under normal circumstances, insurers will advise an 
insurance customer or the customer's intermediary of changes to, or the cancellation of a policy within a reasonable 
prescribed period prior to the expiration of the policy, if the customer provides information required for determining 
renewal terms of the policy within the time prescribed, which could vary by province, but is usually 45 days prior to expiry 
of the policy.

You have the right to ask who is providing compensation to your broker or agent for the sale of your insurance. Your 
broker or agent will provide information detailing for you how he or she is paid, by whom, and in what ways.


26

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

You have a right to be told about insurers' compensation arrangements with their distribution networks. You have a right 
to ask the broker or agent with whom you deal for details of how and by whom it is being paid. Brokers and agents are 
committed to providing information relating to ownership, financing, and other relevant facts.

Responsibility to ask questions and share information

To safeguard your right to purchase appropriate coverage at a competitive price, you should ask questions about your 
policy so that you understand what it covers and what your obligations are under it. You can access information through 
one-on-one meetings with your broker or agent. You have the option to shop the marketplace for the combination of 
coverages and service levels that best suits your insurance needs. To maintain your protection against loss, you must 
promptly inform your broker or agent of any change in your circumstances.

Right to complaint resolution

Insurers, their brokers and agents are committed to high standards of customer service. If you have a complaint about 
the service you have received, you have a right to access Lloyd's Underwriters' complaint resolution process for Canada. 
Your agent or broker can provide you with information about how you can ensure that your complaint is heard and 
promptly handled. Consumers may also contact their respective provincial insurance regulator for information. Lloyd's is 
a member of an independent complaint resolution office, the General Insurance OmbudService.

Responsibility to resolve disputes

You should always enter into the dispute resolution process in good faith, provide required information in a timely 
manner, and remain open to recommendations made by independent observers as part of that process.

Right to professional service

You have the right to deal with insurance professionals who exhibit a high ethical standard, which includes acting with 
honesty, integrity, fairness and skill. Brokers and agents must exhibit extensive knowledge of the product, its coverages 
and its limitations in order to best serve you.

Right to privacy

Because it is important for you to disclose any and all information required by an insurer to provide the insurance 
coverage that best suits you, you have the right to know that your information will be used for the purpose set out in the 
privacy statement made available to you by your broker, agent or insurance representative. This information will not be 
disclosed to anyone except as permitted by law. You should know that Lloyd's Underwriters are subject to Canada's 
privacy laws - with respect to their business in Canada.

 

ONTARIO COMMERCIAL LIABILITY NOTICE

 

Notice to Insureds:

Pursuant to 
the
Freedom Of Information and Protection Of Privacy Act,


27

CFC Underwriting Limited is Authorized and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
©1999-2019 CFC Underwriting Ltd, All Rights Reserved Property & Casualty (CAN) v2.0

R.S.O. 1990, c.F.31 (as amended)

 

Important
The notice below applies to insurance contracts containing non automobile legal liability coverages in provinces where 
statistical data relating to such contracts must be reported to the Superintendent of Insurance.

 

Legal authority for collection
Insurance Act, R.S.O. 1990, c.I.8, section 101(1).

Principal purpose for which personal information is intended to be used Information collected by insurers from insureds 
or supplied to insurers pertaining to the attached document will be used:

 to compile aggregate statistical data to be used in monitoring trends in the insurance industry; 
 to develop statistical exhibits to be used in monitoring the insurance industry;
 to respond to requests for customized statistical information on the insurance industry;
 to respond to inquiries on statistical information made to Office of the Superintendent of Insurance; and
 to use and disclose such information for purposes which are consistent with the previous clauses.

The Public Official who can answer questions about the collection is:

 

Manager, Statistical Services
Financial Services Commission of Ontario
5160 Yonge Street, 17th Floor
Box 85
North York, Ontario M2N 6L9
Telephone: (416) 250-7250
Fax: (416) 590-7070
FOI (11/1999)
