


Echelon Guidelines



INTRODUCTION

The purpose of the Binding Authority Agreement between VaGo and Echelon is to provide coverage for SME businesses domiciled in Canada.

The purpose of this underwriting manual is to provide VaGo with specific underwriting guidance in respect of Echelon’s risk appetite. 

The underwriting guidance and criteria contained within the underwriting manual forms part of the Binding Authority Agreement between VaGo and Echelon.



ELIGIBLE RISKS

Target Risks

-	Residential buildings
-	Mixed-use buildings (i.e. residential buildings with ground-floor commercial operations)
-	Any other occupancy – refer to Echelon.

With respect to commercial tenants, only the following occupancies are acceptable:

-	Offices/professional services
o	Excluding data mining/server farms.
-	Retail trade
o	Excluding auto body shops
o	Excluding cannabis-related tenants
-	Wholesale trade
-	Personal and repair services
-	Contractors property
-	Real estate management
-	Any other occupancy – refer to Echelon.


Excluded Risks

-	First Loss or Excess of Loss coverage
-	Heritage-listed risks unless contents only
-	HUD apartments/housing; subsidised housing, or low-income projects – unless HUD/subsidised occupancy does not exceed 20% of total occupancy
-	Properties that are not in a good state of repair or structurally sound
-	Any property within a coal mining area
-	Vacant risks for more than 24 months 
-	Any insured without five years’ loss history available
-	Any insured with a previous arson claim
-	The following insureds:
o	Any insured with criminal record for anything else other than a driving conviction
o	Any insured with a prosecution pending
o	Any insured that has been declared bankrupt or has been issued with bankruptcy proceedings



Exclusions: The following business will be declined by echelon:

Mechanic tenant (Garage)
Pet Shops
Excavation
Performance hall
Retail arbitrage
Nutraceuticals (written by life science)
Animal feeds
Aviation, aerospace or nuclear exposure
Firearms and ammunition
Pesticides and fertilizers
Pharmaceuticals
Safety critical auto parts
Sports protective equipment
Structural building materials
Tobacco and vaping products
Toys
Irrigation
Extermination of insects and rodents
Climbing center
Unifamilial house
Reception room
Merger & Acquisitions Services
100% Wood Construction
Lottery
Establishments with Lottery video
Night clubs & Bars
Late-night opening restaurants especially after 1am
Auto & Delivery
Snow Removal
Heavy Contractors
Shawarma restaurant (To Be discussed)
Low-income or social housing
Residential Building where they house old people
Airbnb units
Churches or worship buildings
Standalone property Cover
Amusement Arcades
Oil & Gas exploration And Production
Mining & Natural resources
Roofers
Security Risks
Tour Operators
Trucking, haulage & Logistics
Course Of Construction
Vacant Buildings unless part of portfolio
Risks containing explosives, pyrotechnics, firearms
HVAC contractor (Heating, Ventilation & Air Conditioning)
Dry Cleaner
Worship Place (Like Church…)
Warehouse used by others
Shisha
Polyurethane composite panels 
Abortion clinics.
Adult entertainment, night clubs and bars. Liquor revenues greater than 40%. Air support dome structures.
Aircraft or air cushion vehicle or any premises for the purpose of an airport or aircraft landing area. Amusement parks/devices.
Art galleries. Animal feed. Blood banks.
Bridges, tunnels, dams, quays, flumes and wharves, subways Casinos.
Circuses.
Cranes.
Crops and/or trees growing or standing in the open. Crypto mining.
Convalescent homes, nursing homes, rest homes.
Dump Sites - inclusive of landfills and waste collection facilities. Equestrian risks.
Exhibitions/fair grounds. Explosives of any kind. Embassies.
Farm business.
Film negative risks covering any type of film other than safety film.
Fish & seafood processing, including but not limited to canning, freezing, rendering and storage. Fish hatcheries, fish and mussel Farms.
Fertilizer manufacturing/wholesaling or products with ammonia nitrate. Fireworks.
Grain elevators. Greenhouses.
Gold Bullion.
Jeweller's and/or furriers blocks.
Licensed automobiles. Livestock.
Manufacturing of any matches and/or explosives including fireworks, ammunitions. Manufacturing/warehousing/wholesaling of adhesives, glue, mucilage and paste.
Manufacturing/warehousing/wholesaling of or involving borax, phosphate, salt, sulphur. Manufacturing/warehousing/wholesaling of asbestos products, radioactive isotopes, ethanol, bio- diesel.
Manufacturing/warehousing/wholesaling of chemicals. Manufacturing/warehousing/wholesaling of drugs, pharmaceuticals, patent medicines. Manufacturing/warehousing/wholesaling of plastics/fiberglass
Manufacturing/warehousing/wholesaling of tobacco or tobacco products such as vaping products. 
Marijuana related risks.
Marine properties (including piers, docks, wharfs and shipyards). Medical laboratories.
Mining operations/property excluding above ground quarries.
Money, books of account, securities for money, evidence of debt or title. Municipal and government business.
Museums.
Nuclear.
Oil & Gas risks including offshore gas and oil rigs.
Overhead transmission and distribution lines & their supporting structures, other than those on or within 300 meters of the insured's premises.
Power generation - inclusive of solar and wind farms. Public armored car and messenger services.
Public/private schools. Racetracks.
Railroad risks. Recycling.
Re-upholsters, furniture refinishers.
Rubber manufacturing, reclaiming, wholesaling. Sawmills and planning mills.
Ski Resorts. Shipwright operations.
Scrap metal and auto wreckers. Tank farms.
Tire re-treading, salvage and storage.
Watercraft in excess of 8 meters in length and/or being used to carry persons or property for a charge. USA Property.
Underground property.
Zoos.
 
** Please note, building ownership risks are subject to the exclusion list. For example, if the tenant is plastic wholesaler or a marijuana related risk then we would not wish to write the property for the building owner.

11 Excluded Coverages
Deductible Buyback. 
Difference in Conditions. 
Fronting Arrangements. 
Hail, when written as such. 
Manuscript Wordings.
Mortality and health insurance coverage on animals and fish including shell fish.
Mortgage Impairment Guarantee or Title Insurance.
Primary I Excess when written as such. 
Privacy Breach and Cyber.
Pro Rata Policies. 
Reinsurance.
Standalone Earthquake or Flood. 
Standalone Crime or Fidelity.
Warranty Guarantee or Warranty Insurance. 
Communicable Disease.


Referral Business: The following business should be referred to echelon:

-	Policy periods in excess of 12 months (plus odd time)
-	Risks located outside of Quebec or Ontario
-	Flood/SBU coverage in High-Exposure Flood Zones
-	Any risk with commercial occupancies that have deep-fat frying without regularly serviced automatic fire suppression systems
-	Risks with roofs older than 25 years
-	Risks where electrical/plumbing/heating hasn’t been updated in the last 40 years, subject confirmation of:
o	No Poly B plumbing
o	No aluminium wiring, unless pigtailed.
-	Backdated coverage (no-loss letter required)
-	Subsidence and underpinned properties
-	Properties undergoing refurbishment where works over CAD 100,000 – see ‘Structural Alterations and Renovations’
-	Unprotected business 
-	Any insured with more than two claims in the past five years
-	Any insured with a fire claim in the past three years
-	Any insured with any claim over CAD 250,000 in the last three years


Please send all referrals to where should we send referrals? 



RISK LIMITS

CAD 3,000,000 any one risk (ceded to facility) including buildings, contents and loss of rents for Frame/Brick Veneer buildings.

CAD 5,000,000 any one risk (ceded to facility) including buildings, contents and loss of rents for Joisted Masonry/Better Construction buildings.


‘Any one risk’ deemed to be all exposures within the following minimum building separation (new business only):

Frame/Brick Veneer			75 feet
Joisted Masonry/Better Construction	50 feet


 

 

